# Jack Wagner
# 3/18/2022

# LING50.06

This repository is my code and output for my preliminary analysis of my final project for Computational Psychology of Language at Dartmouth College.

## Files

`getngrams.py`: This is the only file not written by myself. It is directly taken from https://github.com/econpy/google-ngrams. It generates a CSV and a plot for each binomial expression from Google N-grams.

`expressions.txt`: This is a list of common binomial expressions I thought of as well as some taken from https://www.eslbuzz.com/40-common-binomial-expressions-in-english/

`getPlots.sh`: The first loop in this script makes a call to `getngrams.py` for each binomial expression in `expressions.txt`. The second loop passes each generated CSV into `calculateRatios.py`.

`calculateRatios.py`: This file takes in a CSV file name that was generated from `getngrams.py` and calculates the difference in frequency for each word order of a binomial expression and plots them.

## Directories

`results`: This directory contains the CSV and frequency plots for each binomial expression in `expressions.txt` that were generated by `getngrams.py`.

`ratios`: This directory contains the plot of the ratios between the word order frequencies of a binomial expression as well as a .txt file containing the precise values.

## Running

To run the code in this repository, put all your binomial expressions of interest in `expressions.txt`. Make sure the expressions are in alphabetical order. Then, in the terminal, use the following command to make all the CSVs and plots of both frequencies and ratios.

````
bash getPlots.sh
````

If you are running Python 2.x, lines 22 and 24 of `getPlots.sh` will have to be modified. Instead of `python3`, simply write `python`.
